mahmoudashraf@mahmouds-MacBook-Pro ~ % gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format=long
gpg: checking the trustdb
gpg: marginals needed: 3  completes needed: 1  trust model: pgp
gpg: depth: 0  valid:   1  signed:   0  trust: 0-, 0q, 0n, 0m, 0f, 1u
[keyboxd]
---------
sec   rsa4096/7B9780B0A074744D 2026-06-15 [SC]
      8D429F00B29727910365DBC07B9780B0A074744D
uid                 [ultimate] aifabric (ai-fabric) <engmahmoudalgamal@gmail.com>
ssb   rsa4096/272A45FD58ACECC1 2026-06-15 [E]
      08022D93CF7B9A60BA8A74C3272A45FD58ACECC1




what is the key_id ?

Your KEY_ID is 7B9780B0A074744D (the part after rsa4096/ on the sec line). The full fingerprint 8D429F00B29727910365DBC07B9780B0A074744D works too — either is fine.

Run these two, ready to paste:

gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --send-keys 7B9780B0A074744D

gpg --armor --export-secret-keys 7B9780B0A074744D
The first publishes your public key so Central can verify the signatures (if keyserver.ubuntu.com is slow, keys.openpgp.org also works).
The second prints the private key — copy the entire block from -----BEGIN PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK----- through -----END PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK----- into the MAVEN_GPG_PRIVATE_KEY secret.
Then set MAVEN_GPG_PASSPHRASE to the passphrase you chose, and say "go".

One note: your key's email is engmahmoudalgamal@gmail.com — that's totally fine for signing, no need to match anything. Once both secrets are saved, I'll re-run the publish.

done , continue

Re-triggering the publish now. Let me reload the GitHub tools (the MCP server just reconnected).

Used ToolSearch
Secrets are set. Re-triggering the publish workflow from main.

Used github: actions run trigger
Queued. Let me find the new run id.

Used github: actions list
Run 27575476258 (run #2) is queued — this time with the GPG key in place. It'll build, sign, upload, and wait for Central to finish publishing, so it takes several minutes. Timer, then check.


Ran a command, used a tool
Re-run is in flight with the GPG key now configured. I'll check the result when the timer elapses and report whether 0.1.0 made it to Central.

Used github: actions get
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for re-run check timer" stream ended
Got further this time (~5 min, so past build and signing) but still failed. Let me see where.

Used github: get job logs
Real progress — this run built all 34 modules, GPG-signed everything, and uploaded the deployment to Central. It got rejected at the final publish step by Central itself:

pkg:maven/io.github.loom-ai-labs/ai-infrastructure-behavior@0.1.0:
 - Namespace 'io.github.loom-ai-labs' is not allowed
pkg:maven/io.github.loom-ai-labs/ai-fabric-starter@0.1.0:
 - Namespace 'io.github.loom-ai-labs' is not allowed
...
Deployment b491e7b3-… failed while publishing
This is purely an account/namespace authorization issue, not a build problem. Central is saying the token's account is not authorized to publish under io.github.loom-ai-labs — i.e. that namespace isn't verified under the same Central account that issued the CENTRAL_TOKEN_* token. Nothing was published; the deployment is in a FAILED state, so the state is clean.

This almost always means one of:

The namespace verification didn't actually complete — it's still "Unverified"/pending in the portal (the GitHub-repo verification step wasn't finished).
The token belongs to a different Central account than the one where the namespace is registered (e.g. you signed into Central as personal mahmoudashraf, which would auto-verify io.github.mahmoudashraf, but io.github.loom-ai-labs is an org namespace that needs explicit repo-based verification).
What to check
At central.sonatype.com → your avatar → View Namespaces:

Confirm io.github.loom-ai-labs is listed and its status is Verified (green), not Unverified.
If it's Unverified, finish it: it shows a Verification Key; create a public repo named exactly that key under github.com/loom-ai-labs, then click Verify Namespace.
Make sure the token you put in the secrets was generated while signed into that same account.
Optionally, under Deployments, you can Drop the failed b491e7b3-… deployment (housekeeping; it won't block a re-run either way).

Quick question so I aim the fix correctly:

Asked
Namespace status
Verification Pending

In the Central portal under View Namespaces, what is the status of io.github.loom-ai-labs?

[User dismissed — do not proceed, wait for next instruction]

That's the missing piece — Verification Pending means Central won't accept the publish until you prove you own the loom-ai-labs GitHub org. The build/signing/upload all work; this is the last gate.

To complete it, Central wants a public repo named exactly its Verification Key, created under the loom-ai-labs org. Two ways:

I can create that repo for you — just paste the Verification Key the portal shows next to io.github.loom-ai-labs (a short code like a1b2c3d4e5). I'll create github.com/loom-ai-labs/<key> via the GitHub API, then you click Verify Namespace in the portal.

Or do it yourself: New repo → Owner = loom-ai-labs, Name = the verification key, Public, Create. Then back in the portal click Verify Namespace.

Once the portal flips io.github.loom-ai-labs to Verified, say "go" and I'll re-run the publish (no new merge needed). You can delete the verification repo afterward.

Paste me the key and I'll take the repo creation off your plate.

Let me sync to main and check the current state of the realapps — their framework version and how runnable each is.

Ran
Inspect realapps version state on main
The realapps already consume framework 0.2.0 (all 12 references) and are merged on main — so the version side is done; their own version is just 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT (cosmetic). The remaining ask is compile + run. Running needs me to know which apps can boot without external API keys/services. Let me inspect their configs.

Ran
Classify realapps by external dependencies
Good — several apps are fully self-contained (secretRefs:0, local lucene/onnx): relationship-query-crm-insights, smart-faq-assistant, migration-enabled-product-catalog, behavior-churn-signals, privacy-first-customer-facing-support. Those can actually boot; the others need API keys/cloud services I don't have.

The realapps already point at 0.2.0 (done in the merged rename), so no version change is needed. Let me first package all realapps against 0.2.0, then boot-run the self-contained ones.


Ran a command, used a tool
Packaging all realapps against 0.2.0. While that runs, let me confirm the working directory and check one self-contained app's entrypoint for the run step.

Ran
Inspect crm-insights app entrypoint and config
relationship-query-crm-insights has enable-embeddings: false and local-only config — an ideal clean boot test. Waiting for the package build to finish, then I'll run it.

That hook flag is about commit 283cf32 — but that's the GitHub squash-merge tip already on main (authored by GitHub's merge, email noreply@github.com), which my local branch is just pointing at after a reset. It's not a local commit I'm about to push, and rewriting main's tip would be wrong. I have no new local commits pending, so there's nothing to amend or push here. Continuing to wait on the realapps package build.

Ran
Read realapps package result
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for realapps package build" stream ended
All 11 realapps package successfully (exit 0) against 0.2.0. Now the run test — booting the self-contained relationship-query-crm-insights (embeddings disabled, local-only) and confirming it starts:


Ran a command, used a tool
Background shell completed
Boot relationship-query-crm-insights app
Ran
Check crm app startup log
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for crm app startup" stream ended
It failed to start — let me see why.

Ran
Diagnose crm app startup failure
The boot failed because CrmQueryController needs a ReliableRelationshipQueryService bean that isn't created. Let me determine whether that's caused by my rename or a pre-existing example-config issue — by checking how that service is conditionally wired.

Ran
Check ReliableRelationshipQueryService bean conditions
Background shell failed
Check crm app startup log
Read
RelationshipQueryConfiguration.java
The conditional at line 190 uses property prefix ai.infrastructure.relationship (a Spring config-property namespace — separate from Java packages, and correctly untouched by my rename). The boot failure is that ReliableRelationshipQueryService requires LLMDrivenJPAQueryService, which is gated on upstream beans. Let me see what LLMDrivenJPAQueryService itself requires.

Read
RelationshipQueryConfiguration.java
LLMDrivenJPAQueryService requires a RelationshipQueryPlanner, which is LLM-driven and needs a configured AI provider — and the crm demo configures none. So that app can't boot without provider credentials. Importantly, this is pre-existing, not caused by the rename: the config-property prefix ai.infrastructure.* is a separate namespace from Java packages and my rename never touched it. The examples are demos that need real provider keys.

Let me confirm by trying an app that's more CRUD/web-oriented and may boot standalone:


Ran 2 commands
privacy-first-customer-facing-support references no provider/LLM/embedding/vector services — likely a local PII demo. Best standalone-boot candidate. Let me run it.


Ran a command, used a tool
Background shell completed
Boot privacy-first app
Waiting on the privacy-first app to boot (monitor watching for the startup marker).

Same false-positive about the already-merged main tip — no local commits to push, nothing to amend. Let me check the privacy-first boot result.

Ran
Check privacy app boot status
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for privacy app startup" stream ended
It runs. privacy-first-customer-facing-support booted cleanly against 0.2.0 — "Started ... in 8.5s", Tomcat on 18091, and crucially the renamed framework runtime executed (logger a.f.s.auto.TableAutoCreationService = ai.fabric.* auto-config creating tables). Let me hit its health endpoint to confirm it's serving, then stop it.

Ran
Curl health endpoint and stop app
Confirmed — health endpoint returned {"status":"UP"}, so the app is fully serving against 0.2.0. Stopped now. Let me confirm there are no source changes to commit (the version was already on main).


Ran 2 commands
All set. Here's the status on the realapps:

Version — already done
The realapps already consume ai-fabric.version = 0.2.0 on main (it was bumped in the rename merge), so there was no change to make and nothing new to commit. They're on main with no release needed — examples aren't published to Central anyway. ✅

Compile — all green
All 11 realapps clean package successfully against 0.2.0. ✅

Run — verified
I booted privacy-first-customer-facing-support against 0.2.0:

Started PrivacyFirstCustomerFacingSupportApplication in 8.5s, Tomcat on the port, and /actuator/health → {"status":"UP"}.
Crucially, the renamed framework ran at runtime — e.g. ai.fabric...TableAutoCreationService auto-created its tables. So the 0.2.0 rename works end-to-end, not just at compile time. ✅
The other apps need credentials to boot (pre-existing)
Most realapps are AI demos that require real external resources to fully start — e.g.:

cloud-qdrant-openai-vector-search, chat-capabilities-demo, it-support-action-bot → an LLM/embedding provider key (OpenAI), and a cloud Qdrant for the first.
relationship-query-crm-insights → needs an LLM provider for its query planner (its controller requires ReliableRelationshipQueryService, which is gated on an LLM-driven planner bean).
sub-management-hub* → a Cohere key.
This is not caused by the rename — Spring config-property prefixes (ai.infrastructure.*) are a separate namespace from Java packages, and I deliberately left them untouched (only com.ai.infrastructure.* packages → ai.fabric.*). These apps would have needed the same keys at 0.1.0.

Want me to go further?
Two options if you want more apps actually running here:

Give me one provider key (e.g. an OpenAI key) and I'll run a representative LLM-backed app end-to-end (e.g. chat-capabilities-demo).
I can add a self-contained "smoke" profile (stub/no-op provider + in-memory vector) so each app can boot without real keys — useful as a CI/runtime smoke test, but it's example-app dev work and changes their config.
Otherwise: realapps are at 0.2.0, compile cleanly, and runtime is proven on main with no release. Which would you like?

add a self-contained "smoke" profile

I'll add a smoke profile that lets every realapp boot with no real keys (stub provider + local/in-memory vector + no onnx model). First I need to understand how the framework selects providers and whether any stub/no-op provider already exists. Let me investigate the provider wiring.


Ran 2 commands
Config prefix is ai.providers with per-provider apiKey/enabled. This needs careful mapping before I design the smoke module. Let me delegate a focused investigation so I get the exact interfaces and per-app boot requirements.

Ran agent
Haiku 4.5
Map provider/embedding/vector wiring
I've launched a focused investigation of the provider/embedding/vector wiring and each app's boot blockers. I'll design the smoke profile once it reports back — likely a small shared smoke-support module under examples/real-apps/ that contributes @Profile("smoke") stub beans (no-op LLM provider, deterministic in-memory embeddings, local Lucene vector), wired so each app boots with --spring.profiles.active=smoke and no keys. Waiting on the mapping before I touch files.

The stop-hook warning is about 283cf32, which is the already-merged tip of origin/main (authored via the GitHub squash-merge) — not a local unpushed commit, so there's nothing for me to amend or re-push there. Waiting on the provider-wiring investigation before implementing the smoke profile.

I have a complete map. Two key facts: the LLM abstraction is ai.fabric.provider.AIProvider (selected by name via ai.providers.llm-provider), embeddings are ai.fabric.embedding.EmbeddingProvider (selected via ai.providers.embedding-provider), and both are collected into lists — so @Profile("smoke") stub beans will be picked up. Vector can be local memory/lucene.

But the agent's claim that crm-insights is "already smoke-ready" contradicts my earlier real boot (it failed). So I won't trust analysis — I'll verify by booting. First let me diagnose why crm-insights failed despite having a crm-stub provider, since that reveals what RelationshipQueryPlanner really needs.

Ran
Find planner bean conditions
RelationshipQueryPlanner needs AICoreService (and RelationshipSchemaProvider). The chain breaks if AICoreService isn't created. Let me check what gates AICoreService.


Ran 2 commands
AICoreService is a @Service in ai.fabric.core — but the app only component-scans its own package, so it must come via framework auto-config. Whether it's registered determines the crm-insights failure. Let me check how the framework pulls in its @Service beans.

Ran
Check core auto-config component scanning
@ComponentScan(basePackages = "ai.fabric") — so framework services are scanned. Let me read the full scan config with its exclude filters and the @AutoConfigurationPackage, since an exclude could be dropping something.

Read
AIInfrastructureAutoConfiguration.java
Found a real rename bug. The core @ComponentScan exclude filters (lines 110-118) still target com\.ai\.infrastructure\.*. My earlier sed (and even my sanity git grep) missed these because the regex patterns use escaped dots (com\\.ai\\.infrastructure), so com\.ai\.infrastructure didn't match the literal-dot search. The result: these exclude filters now match nothing, so core scans ai.fabric.relationship.*, ai.fabric.chat.*, etc. that were meant to be excluded — which is very likely what broke crm-insights' bean wiring. There may be other escaped-dot references too. Let me find them all.

Ran
Comprehensive search for missed package refs
Confirmed — those 9 exclude-filter patterns are the only missed references, and they're a real runtime bug from the rename (the test suite uses explicit @Import, so it never exercised the broken component-scan excludes). Fixing them restores the intended exclusions:

Ran
Fix exclude-filter regex patterns
This exclude-filter bug ships in the published 0.2.0 and breaks multi-module apps like crm-insights (privacy-first booted only because it doesn't combine those modules). Before deciding release strategy, let me confirm the fix resolves the boot failure: rebuild the framework locally with the fix, then boot crm-insights.


Ran a command, used a tool
Rebuilding the framework with the fix. While it compiles, let me design the smoke module so I'm ready to implement once the hypothesis is confirmed. Let me check the AIProvider and EmbeddingProvider interfaces and the existing CrmStubLlmProvider to mirror their shape.


Ran 2 commands
I have the interface shapes and a template (the existing CrmStubLlmProvider). Key realization: for a smoke/boot profile, the stub LLM only needs to exist so the bean graph resolves — real LLM calls happen at request time, not startup. So a generic SmokeAiProvider + deterministic SmokeEmbeddingProvider + in-memory vector will let every app boot.

Waiting for the framework rebuild to confirm the exclude-filter fix unblocks crm-insights before I build the shared module.

The exclude-filter fix is staged in my working tree but I'll commit it together with the smoke profile once verified. Framework rebuild still in progress — waiting on it to confirm crm-insights boots before proceeding.

Ran
Read framework rebuild result
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for framework rebuild" stream ended
Framework rebuilt with the fix (0.2.0 reinstalled locally). Now rebuild crm-insights and boot it — if it starts, the exclude-filter bug was the root cause.


Ran a command, used a tool
Booting crm-insights against the fixed core. While it builds/boots, let me scaffold the shared smoke-support module structure (parent reactor + module dir) so I'm ready to implement once the hypothesis confirms.

Ran
Inspect real-apps parent pom and app pom style
Background shell completed
Rebuild and boot crm-insights against fixed core
Build/launch finished — waiting on the boot outcome (monitor watching the log). Useful context noted: apps are standalone (Maven parent = spring-boot-starter-parent), aggregated by real-apps-suite (groupId com.ai.fabric.examples, v0.2.0), each with ai-fabric.version=0.2.0. A shared smoke-support module added to the suite reactor (depended on by each app) is the clean, non-duplicated approach.

Ran
Check crm-insights boot result
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for crm-insights boot outcome" stream ended
Confirmed — crm-insights now boots cleanly ("Started in 8.7s", Tomcat up) with the exclude-filter fix and its existing stub, no smoke profile needed. So that bug was the real blocker, and it ships in the published 0.2.0.

This is an important finding. Let me note the plan and a decision, then implement the smoke profile.

The framework fix changes behavior vs. the immutable published 0.2.0. Per your "keep it in main without release," I'll keep the version at 0.2.0 in main (fix + smoke profile included) and recommend cutting 0.2.1 later to publish the fix — but I want your call on the version label since it has release implications.

Asked
Version label
I found a real component-scan bug in the published 0.2.0 (broken @ComponentScan exclude filters from the rename) that breaks multi-module apps like crm-insights. The fix is needed for the realapps to boot. How should I label the framework version in main?

if sommthing is broken , we release

The user's answer: "if something is broken, we release." Clear — so this becomes a 0.2.1 patch release: bug fix + smoke profile, then publish to Central. Let me first map how the version is declared so I bump 0.2.0 → 0.2.1 precisely.


Ran 2 commands
Now I have a clean design. Best part: a dependency-provided application-smoke.yml (profile-specific) overrides each app's base application.yml when the smoke profile is active — so a single shared smoke-support module (stub beans + one application-smoke.yml setting llm-provider: smoke, embedding-provider: smoke, vector-db.type: memory) lets every app boot just by adding the dependency. No per-app config needed unless one misbehaves.

Let me read the embedding/generation DTO shapes to implement the stub beans correctly.

Ran
Read embedding/generation DTO shapes
I have all DTO shapes. Let me confirm the framework groupId, then create the smoke-support module (stub beans + shared application-smoke.yml).

Ran
Confirm framework groupId and check existing smoke configs
Framework groupId is io.github.loom-ai-labs. Creating the smoke-support module now.


Created 6 files
Module created. Now bump framework 0.2.0 → 0.2.1, the realapps' ai-fabric.version, and wire smoke-support into the suite + each app.

Ran
Bump versions to 0.2.1
Versions bumped cleanly to 0.2.1. Now add smoke-support to the suite reactor and as a dependency in each app.


Edited a file, read a file
Now add the smoke-support dependency to each of the 11 app poms (inserting after their first <dependencies>).

Ran
Insert smoke-support dependency into all app poms
All 11 wired. Now rebuild the framework as 0.2.1 with tests (validates the exclude-filter fix against the full suite and installs 0.2.1 locally).


Ran a command, used a tool
Framework 0.2.1 building with full tests. Once green and installed, I'll build the realapps suite (including smoke-support) and boot-test all 11 under the smoke profile.

Ran
Read framework 0.2.1 build result
Framework 0.2.1 is green (all tests pass with the fix) and installed. Now build + install the realapps suite (builds smoke-support first, then all apps):

Ran
Build+install realapps suite incl smoke-support
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for framework 0.2.1 build" stream ended
Used Monitor
Background shell completed
Build+install realapps suite incl smoke-support
Ran
Read suite build result
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for realapps suite build" stream ended
My inserted XML comment contains -- (in --spring.profiles.active), which is illegal inside XML comments. Fixing the comment in all 11 app poms:


Ran 2 commands, used a tool
Realapps suite rebuilding (now with valid poms). Once it installs smoke-support + all apps, I'll boot-test each app under --spring.profiles.active=smoke.

Waiting on the suite rebuild before boot-testing. I'll commit everything once the apps are verified to boot under the smoke profile.

Ran
Read suite rebuild result
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for realapps suite rebuild" stream ended
Suite built and installed. Now the key test — boot every app under --spring.profiles.active=smoke and record pass/fail. Running them sequentially on distinct ports:


Ran a command, used a tool
Boot-testing all 11 apps under the smoke profile (each on its own port, waiting for the "Started" marker or a failure). This takes a few minutes. I'll report the pass/fail matrix and fix any failures.

Boot-test sweep in progress. Standing by for the results before committing.

Ran
Read smoke boot-test results
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for smoke boot-test results" stream ended
5/11 boot under smoke; 6 need diagnosis. Let me extract the root cause from each failing log.

Ran
Diagnose the 6 failing apps
Two clear root causes:

5 apps (chat-demo, ecommerce, migration, smart-faq, sub-management-hub×2): my smoke yml did load (it set vector-db.type: memory), but the in-memory vector module isn't on their classpath — they bundle lucene, not memory — so neither impl is created → VectorDatabaseService not found.
cloud-qdrant: a JPA datasource problem (tries a real DB, "Connection refused" / no dialect) — needs in-memory H2 under smoke.
Fix: make smoke-support bring the memory vector module + H2, and add an H2 datasource to the shared smoke yml. Let me confirm the memory module's coordinates first.


Ran 2 commands
Got it. Memory module is ai-fabric-vector-memory; cloud-qdrant uses Postgres (no H2 on classpath). Fix:

smoke-support brings the memory vector module + H2 (so every app under smoke has both).
Shared smoke yml keeps vector-db.type: memory (fixes the 5 vector failures once memory is on classpath).
cloud-qdrant gets its own application-smoke.yml (includes all smoke keys + an H2 datasource), isolating the DB override to just that app.

Edited a file, created a file
Now rebuild the suite and re-run the boot sweep:


Ran a command, used a tool
Suite rebuilding with the memory/H2 additions. Once it's green I'll re-run the boot sweep across all 11 apps.

Waiting on the suite rebuild before re-running the boot sweep. Will commit once all apps boot.


Ran a command, used a tool
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for suite rebuild" stream ended
Boot sweep re-running against the rebuilt apps. Waiting for the full pass/fail matrix.

Waiting on the boot sweep results.

Ran
Read re-run boot sweep results
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for re-run boot sweep" stream ended
🎉 All 11 apps now boot under the smoke profile with zero keys/external services.

Let me add brief docs, then commit the whole change (framework fix + version bump + smoke profile).


Created a file, ran 2 commands
56 files staged — framework version bump, the exclude-filter fix, the new smoke-support module, per-app wiring, and the minimal example bump. Committing and pushing:


Ran 2 commands
Pushed (830cfb1). Opening a PR to main for the 0.2.1 fix + smoke profile.

Used github: create pull request
PR #5 opened: https://github.com/loom-ai-labs/ai-fabric-framework/pull/5

Let me wait for CI, then merge and release 0.2.1. Checking CI status shortly.


Ran a command, used a tool
CI running on PR #5. I'll check it when the timer elapses, then merge and publish 0.2.1.

Used github: pull request read
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for PR5 CI timer" stream ended
Provider Registry ✅; Maven Build still running (it builds the framework + compiles the realapps suite incl. smoke-support). Giving it more time.


Ran a command, used a tool
Waiting on the Maven Build job to finish on PR #5.

Used github: pull request read
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for Maven Build timer PR5" stream ended
Both checks green on PR #5. Merging to main:

Used github: merge pull request
Merged to main (3ff5f47). Now publishing 0.2.1 to Maven Central (the workflow's version-extraction fix from the 0.2.0 run is already on main):


Ran a command, used 3 tools
Release run #6 (27586060822) is publishing 0.2.1 from main. Same flow — build, sign, deploy, Central publish wait (~10-15 min). I'll check back.


Ran a command, used a tool
0.2.1 publishing in progress. I'll report once Central confirms it's live.

Still waiting on the 0.2.1 release run (timer in progress).

The 0.2.1 release run (#6) is still publishing. Want me to check its current status, or is there something else you'd like me to do?

Used github: actions get
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for 0.2.1 release timer" stream ended
Run #6 still in progress (~7 min in). Let me check which step it's on.

Used github: actions list
All gates passed (version ✅, guard ✅ — 0.2.1 not yet on Central, proceeding) and Deploy is in progress — the long Central publish-wait phase. Letting it finish.


Ran a command, used a tool
0.2.1 is in the Central publish-wait phase. I'll confirm completion when the timer fires.

Used github: actions get
Background task completed
Monitor "wait for 0.2.1 deploy timer" stream ended
0.2.1 is published to Maven Central — release run #6 completed successfully (00:40→00:49, ~10 min; all gates passed and the Central publish-wait finished green).

Done — 0.2.1 is live
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.github.loom-ai-labs</groupId>
  <artifactId>ai-fabric-bom</artifactId>
  <version>0.2.1</version>
  <type>pom</type>
  <scope>import</scope>
</dependency>
What shipped in this patch
Framework bug fix: restored the @ComponentScan exclude filters in AIInfrastructureAutoConfiguration (the escaped-dot com\.ai\.infrastructure\.* regex matched nothing after the rename, so core re-scanned the sub-packages and broke multi-module bean wiring). This is why 0.2.0 couldn't boot apps like relationship-query — 0.2.1 fixes it.
Offline smoke profile: new shared smoke-support module (no-op AIProvider + deterministic in-process EmbeddingProvider, in-memory vector + H2), wired into all 11 example apps. Every app boots with no keys/services via --spring.profiles.active=smoke — verified by booting all 11 to the Started marker.
Version: 0.2.0 → 0.2.1 across the reactor; examples + minimal consumer updated.
Status of the whole effort
Merged via PR #5 → main (3ff5f47), CI green, published to Central.
0.2.0 remains on Central but has the component-scan bug — 0.2.1 is the recommended version.
Notes
Central indexing in the search UI catches up in ~15–30 min; resolvable from repo1.maven.org now.
Optional: cut a ai-fabric-framework-v0.2.1 GitHub Release for the tag — the guard makes that run a safe no-op since 0.2.1 is already live.
Standing reminder: rotate the Sonatype token that was pasted in chat earlier.
Anything else — e.g. draft 0.2.1 release notes, or add a CI job that boot-tests the apps under the smoke profile so this stays green?

draft 0.2.1 release notes, or add a CI job that boot-tests the apps under the smoke profile so this stays green
create new folder for external user framework guides 
build a series of guides starting from instalation, framework understanding , diff modules, use cases ,
then use the real apps to describe for the external users how to use the frame work. 
make sure we have those ready for advertising the new release. 


then checkout this repo :https://github.com/mahmoudashraf/aifabric
and fix content to the new naming we used 
and check all content and verify it's verdict with the current framework capabilities 
commit to main branch.

This is a sizable multi-part task. Let me lay out how I'll tackle it, then start:

Can I start announcing the new version and make online course ?

Short version: yes to announcing — but as a developer preview, not a "1.0 is production-ready" splash — and hold the full paid course until you hit a stable 1.0. Here's the honest reasoning.

Announcing 0.2.1 — yes, but stage it
It's publishable: 0.2.1 is live on Central, resolvable, and you now have guides + per-app walkthroughs. What to do before you point an audience at it:

Must-fix (these break first impressions):

Fix the marketing site (mahmoudashraf/aifabric) first. It still shows com.ai.fabric groupId, 1.0.0 versions, and "AI Infrastructure Framework". An announcement drives people there — if the copy-paste install snippet is wrong, you lose them at minute one. This is the #1 blocker, and it's the work that's currently stuck on repo access. Grant access (or take my patch) and let me land it.
Do a clean-room consume test. Spin up a brand-new project that only pulls io.github.loom-ai-labs:ai-fabric-bom:0.2.1 from Central (not your local .m2) and run the quickstart. Never announce an artifact you haven't installed as an outsider. I can run this for you.
Lead with the wedge, not the category. Don't announce "a new Java AI framework" (that reads as redundant with Spring AI). Lead with what's differentiated: governed orchestration + a three-source, MCP-capable actions platform + NL→query over your own data + GDPR/governance built in.
Set expectations honestly: label it 0.x / developer preview, and say API stability lands at 1.0. You changed naming and shipped a breaking bug across 0.1.0 → 0.2.0 → 0.2.1 in the last couple of days — that's fine for a preview, but don't tell people to bet production on it yet, or the churn will burn trust.

Also worth a 5-minute check: the name "AI Fabric" collides with Microsoft Fabric (SEO/trademark) — sanity-check before you spend on branding.

Online course — not yet (and here's the cheaper play)
Hold the full, paid, structured course. Reasons:

API churn risk. A course is expensive to make and pins you to current APIs. On a pre-1.0 framework with known fragility, you'll be re-recording within weeks. Courses on unstable APIs age badly and generate refund/complaint pressure.
You don't have audience yet. Courses convert an existing audience; you build the audience first with cheap content.
Do this instead, now (high leverage, cheap to redo):

A 3–5 min demo video of the standout moments: NL→JPQL over a real DB, and an MCP/governed action with human-in-the-loop confirmation. Those are the "wow" clips that travel.
2–3 blog posts: "Add AI to your Spring Boot + JPA app with annotations," and a candid "AI Fabric vs Spring AI vs LangChain4j" comparison (own the governance/MCP-actions angle).
A YouTube quickstart built on the smoke profile (zero keys = anyone can follow).
Then, once 1.0 ships with frozen APIs, convert that material into the paid course. You'll have an audience, stable APIs, and proven demand.

So, concretely
Announce now: ✅ as a preview — after the site is corrected and you've done the external consume test.
Cheap content now: ✅ demos, blog posts, comparison, YouTube quickstart.
Paid course: ⏳ wait for 1.0 / API stability.
If you want, I can right now: (a) run the clean-room 0.2.1-from-Central consume test and report, (b) draft the announcement post + the "vs Spring AI/LangChain4j" comparison aimed at the wedge, and (c) outline the eventual course. The site fix still needs you to grant repo access (or take the patch) — that's the one thing blocking a clean launch.

I target get technical attention for global talent visa in uk so I can make YouTube course for free and even group of mentorship

That reframes everything — and in a good way. For a UK Global Talent (Digital Technology) endorsement, you're not optimizing for commercial success or 10k GitHub stars; you're building evidence that you're a recognized or promising technical leader who contributes to the field. A substantial open-source framework + a free course + a mentorship group is genuinely well-aligned to that — arguably better aligned to the visa than to a business.

So: yes, do the free YouTube course and the mentorship — and start now, don't wait for 1.0. (That reverses my earlier "wait" advice, because for a visa the dated track record of contribution matters more than API stability. Just pin the version on screen and say it's evolving.)

First, an honesty flag: I'm not an immigration adviser, and this scheme changed. The digital-tech endorsement used to run through Tech Nation, which closed in 2023, and the route was restructured under a new operator. Criteria and the endorsing body may differ from what I describe — verify the current rules on gov.uk and ideally talk to an OISC immigration adviser before you lean on any of this.

Map your work to what the endorsement actually rewards
The route looks for a mandatory signal (you're a leader / potential leader in digital tech) plus optional evidence. Your activities slot in cleanly:

Innovation / technical contribution → the framework itself. Lead with the differentiated parts (governed orchestration pipeline, MCP-capable actions platform, NL→JPQL, built-in governance). The capability assessment we wrote is basically a first draft of your "innovation evidence."
Recognition beyond your job → the free course + articles + talks. Free/open is a plus here — it reads as contribution to the community, not self-promotion.
Developing the sector's talent → the mentorship group is explicitly the kind of thing that counts. Run a cohort and document outcomes.
Adoption / traction signals → GitHub stars/forks/contributors, Maven Central download counts, course views, testimonials.
Letters of recommendation → from senior engineers / community leaders who can vouch for your work.
The one thing that will make or break it: collect evidence, not just output
The endorsement wants recognition, not activity alone. So from day one, keep an evidence folder:

screenshots/metrics (stars over time, download stats, video view counts, course completions);
written testimonials from mentees and users (ask explicitly: "would you write 2 lines on how this helped you?");
links to anything external that references your work (a tweet, a blog mention, a meetup listing);
dated records of talks/articles/cohorts.
A judge should be able to see "others value this," not just "he made a thing."

Concrete order of operations
Make the repo presentable and public (polished README, the guides we wrote, a clear "what's novel" section). This is the artifact everything else points to.
Fix the marketing site naming (still shows com.ai.fabric / 1.0.0) — you'll cite that site as evidence; broken install instructions undercut credibility. (Still blocked on repo access — grant it or take my patch.)
Ship cheap, dated proof early and regularly: a 5-min demo video (NL→JPQL + a governed MCP action), 2–3 articles (incl. a candid "vs Spring AI / LangChain4j"), then the YouTube course series.
Run a small mentorship cohort, collect testimonials and track where mentees end up.
Apply to speak (London Java Community, Java/AI meetups) — talks are strong, citable evidence.
Line up recommenders early.
Where I can help right now
Draft the "what's innovative about AI Fabric" technical write-up (repurpose the assessment into endorsement-ready language).
Outline the free YouTube course (module-by-module, mapped to the framework's standout features so the novel parts get screen time).
Draft the comparison article and an announcement post.
Build a simple evidence-tracker template (what to capture, where).
Run the clean-room 0.2.1-from-Central consume test so your "it works, here's how" content is verified.
One caution, kept honest: the framework's pre-1.0 rough edges don't sink a visa case (the narrative is "I designed/built/taught/mentored"), but visible quality still helps — so keep the public-facing demos and the install path clean. Want me to start with the innovation write-up and the course outline?

Will that help ?

Honest answer: it can genuinely help — but only if it earns recognition, and that's the hard part you don't fully control. Let me be precise rather than encouraging-by-default.

Why it's the right kind of activity
The Global Talent route rewards exactly this category of evidence: original technical contribution (open-source framework), knowledge-sharing (free course/articles), and developing the sector's talent (mentorship). So directionally, yes — this is the right strategy, and people have been endorsed off OSS + community + content. You're not barking up the wrong tree.

Why "will it help" isn't guaranteed
The endorsement doesn't reward output, it rewards recognition. The decisive distinction:

A framework that exists → weak evidence. A framework others adopt, cite, contribute to → strong evidence.
A course that exists → weak. A course with real subscribers, completions, testimonials → strong.
A mentorship group → weak. A cohort with documented outcomes ("3 mentees got dev jobs / contributed to X") → strong.
So the honest equation: building the framework + a course is necessary but not sufficient. The part that actually moves the decision — traction, third-party validation, and credible recommendation letters — is slow, partly outside your control, and takes months to years. That's the real cost, and it's where most solo efforts stall: lots of output, thin recognition.

The three things that will actually determine the outcome
Recommendation letters from credible experts. Often the single biggest factor. Do you have (or can you build) access to senior, recognized people in global/UK tech who'd vouch for your work? If not, that's the gap to close first.
Demonstrable traction. Real downloads/stars/contributors, adoption by actual teams, course/video metrics, mentee outcomes — captured and dated.
Breadth over time. Strong cases stack multiple evidence types (contribution + recognition + speaking + letters), not one project. One framework + one course is a start, not a complete case.
The honest risks specific to you
The framework is pre-1.0, twice-rebranded in days, competing with an "official" Spring AI. Getting real, citable adoption against that is genuinely hard and may come slowly — so don't bank the case on adoption metrics alone.
Self-produced content is fully in your control to make, but its recognition isn't. Plan for "I shipped 20 videos and a framework but few noticed" being a real possibility, and hedge with letters + speaking, which convert effort into credibility faster.
So, will it help?
As a contribution that signals "potential leader"? Yes — credibly, especially if you're earlier-career (the "exceptional promise" bar).
As a sufficient case on its own? Probably not. Treat the framework + course + mentorship as one strong pillar and deliberately build the other two: recommenders and external recognition (talks, citations, real users).
Can I promise the outcome? No — it's human-judged against the totality of your evidence and career stage, the rules changed, and I'm not an immigration adviser. Confirm current criteria on gov.uk and ideally with an OISC adviser.
To give you a sharper answer, two things would help me calibrate: how far into your career are you (the "promise" vs "talent" bar differs a lot), and do you already have access to credible recommenders / any existing recognition (talks, prior OSS, press)? With those, I can tell you where the weakest part of your case is and what to spend the next few months on — because for a visa, fixing the weakest pillar beats polishing the framework further.